hello everybody and welcome back to the
channel in this video we're gonna cover
neo4j which is an extremely popular
graph database now let's quickly explain
exactly what a graph database is let's
begin with the database portion a
database is somewhere where we are going
to store our applications data so for
example let's say well we own twitter
twitter is our application we need a
place to store the tweets we need a
place to store the pictures the accounts
etc and of course we're gonna do that
inside of a database so inside of our
database we're gonna store our data
we're going to also retrieve data from
our database we're going to update data
we're going to delete data and we're
also going to create data inside of our
database
now what is a graph database well in the
database community we have hundreds if
not thousands of different databases
that we can utilize and there's
different types of databases for example
over here for postgres and sql we have
sql databases over here we have document
databases such as mongodb and dynamodb
and here we have key value pair
databases like redis and each each
database even though they are storing
data our applications data the way that
they store is a little bit different and
thus their functionality and their
purpose is a little bit different for
example sql databases they store their
data in tables and they have a very
strict schema whereas document databases
they store them in documents and their
schema lists key value pair databases
while they store their data in key value
pairs and thus they allow us for fast
retrieval of data so you really have to
think about you know what your
application's need is before you utilize
whatever database for example if you
want to cache your data somewhere you're
probably not going to use a sql database
to do that instead you're going to use a
very quick key value pair database if
you want to store very sensitive data
and you need to make sure that the
schema is correct well you're probably
going to want to use a sql database for
this so what does this have to do with
graph databases well graph databases are
a different type of databases and
they're databases that are used when our
application has a lot of relationships
and twitter is actually a great example
of this so we can have twitter we can
have a tweet and then people can
actually like that tweet so we have a
relationship between the user that liked
that tweet and that tweet and also that
tweet belongs to a specific account so
we have that relationship as well so
there's so many different relationships
now of course we can
utilize sql databases or even nosql
databases for these types of
relationships but sometimes the
relationships are so cumbersome that we
might want to use a different databases
different database that really focus on
storing data as well as their
relationships and that is what graph
databases are for and that is exactly
what neo4j is going to do so now that we
understand what a graph database is
let's actually look at how data is
stored inside of a graph database
inside of graph databases things are
stored inside of something called nodes
and over here we have this circle that
is representative of a node and inside
of that node we can have any one thing
now you might be thinking what is this
thing well this thing can be anything
that we define this could be a food item
this could be a laptop this could be a
building this could be a person
but again we're going to store that
thing inside of that node for example
let's say that thing is an nba player
then what we would do is we would store
well let's say lebron inside of this
node so we would store it inside of this
node and now if we wanted to store
multiple mba players then what we would
do is we would have multiple nodes and
we would store those nba players in
those nodes so over here we have lebron
anthony davis russell westbrook james
harden and kevin durant obviously you
don't have to know them but if you watch
this channel i always have basketball
everywhere you guys probably know i'm a
huge basketball fan but again those
things which are mba players are stored
inside of nodes so that is how things
are stored inside of graph databases now
of course we can also store multiple
things so over here we can have a node
that is storing the team the the team
los angeles lakers over here we can also
have another node that is storing the
team brooklyn nets so we can store
multiple things they don't all have to
be you know players we can have players
we can have teams we can have coaches
etc we could have a bunch of different
things
now the special part about graph
databases is that we are going to be
able to relate these nodes together
so for example over here we have this
node and then we have this relationship
so we have this relationship so this
node lebron james has this relationship
with this other node los angeles lakers
and what is this relationship well this
relationship is place for
so lebron plays for the los angeles
lakers and notice that this relationship
is directional and it's only one
direction it's only moving in one
direction lebron he plays for the los
angeles lakers not the lakers plays for
lebron james similarly over here we have
russell westbrook he plays for the los
angeles lakers and over here we also
have anthony davis he plays for the los
angeles lakers so over here we can also
define these relationships and over here
we have kevin durant and james harden
they play for the brooklyn nets
and of course we can have multiple
different types of relationships for
example we can also have lebron james is
a teammate to russell westbrook russell
westbrook is also a teammate to lebron
james now notice that this is going two
ways but these are two separate
relationships so this is going one way
and then this is going the other way and
then over here we have you guys probably
get the point russell westbrook is a
teammate to anthony davis anthony davis
is a teammate to russell westbrook so
you can see here we can actually have a
bunch of these relationships across
these different nodes and if you're
familiar with data structures this
awfully looks like a graph data
structure where we have nodes that are
attached to a bunch of other nodes with
edges and that's exactly why it's called
a graph database because it simulates
the graph data structure and that again
is how data is stored in neo4j which is
a graph database and this is going to
make you know when we have applications
that are heavily related there's data
that are heavily related it's going to
make querying for that data adding that
data retrieving that data deleting that
data a lot simpler than maybe dealing
with a traditional sql database
okay cool so i got one question for
myself right now so over here we have
this node how do we know that this node
has you know how do we know that this
node belongs to lebron james
well each node we can actually put
different properties inside of it
and really it's not going to look like
this it's going to look something like
this so over here we have a node and
then over here we have different
properties we have the name lebron and
we could also have multiple different
properties it doesn't just have to be
the name we can have the weight which is
you know 120 kilograms the height which
is 2.2 meters so we can have different
types of properties inside of our node
and that's how we store data for a
specific node
now let's actually talk about
the los angeles lakers so okay we
understand that now we can have
different properties inside of
the nodes over here we have the name
lebron weight 120 height 2.2 and then
over here we have the los angeles lakers
which is named you know los angeles
lakers
now my question is is how do we know
that this node belongs to well is a team
whereas this node over here is a player
well what we can do actually to kind of
distinguish the two is give each node a
label so we can give this node the
player label and then over here we can
give this node the team label so in
order to separate our nodes because they
might be different entities we give them
labels so over here player label and
over here we have the team label
now the last thing i want to talk about
is the relationship remember
relationships are only going to go in
one direction so we have one direction
now if we want to have you know two
directions we would have to create two
different relationships we have to
create a relationship here and then a
relationship here but now let's say
though i want to say that okay this guy
plays for the los angeles lakers but
what's great about it is i can also add
properties inside of the relationship
itself so maybe i can add lebron's
salary inside of this relationship and
we can add of course multiple other ones
but that's what's nice about neo4j and
graph databases you can actually add
properties to the relationship itself so
if i wanted to get lebron salary i can
just go to this relationship and get
okay he makes 40 million dollars a year
so that is how data is stored inside of
graph databases and specifically neo4j
now that we have a good understanding of
that let's actually go ahead and get our
hands dirty and start coding out neo4j
code
in order to get started with neo4j we
need to install it on our local machine
so to do that we need to go to
neo4j.com
download and i'll have this link in the
description below the first thing that
we need to do is just accept all cookies
i'm just going to go ahead and do that
now over here it's going to say well
download neo4j and it's going to say
version 4.3 or greater for you guys
probably nonetheless this is the one
that you want to download so you're
going to go ahead over here and click
download now i am on a mac but the
process for windows is going to be
pretty much the same 90 percent the same
was just going to be a little bit of
differences that you guys can probably
spot relatively easily
so over here the first thing it's going
to say is okay well i want some of our
information so i'm just going to put in
my first name my last name let me just
zoom in here for you guys
or maybe i should zoom out because i
don't want you to see any of this stuff
whatever it's fine
gmail.com and then over here i'm just
gonna say
me
i am in canada so i'm going to say
canada
if i can find it and i'm in i'm in
ontario
all right so i'm going to go ahead and
download this and this should uh give us
a little bit of so what this should do
is redirect us to this page over here
and over here you can see that we have
this key and this key is really really
important and we actually need this in
order to download neo4j and activate it
to our account now the other thing is is
if you look over here you can see that
neo4j desktop is downloading so let's
just wait for that and then we're going
to go ahead and click it once it's done
downloading which should be in like five
seconds
so let's give it a quick wait
and
then we can click on it all right
so once that is done
uh we should get
this over here and this is where it's a
little bit different for you guys on
windows the process might be a little
bit different it probably is going to be
some sort of wizard if you're on mac all
you have to do is just simply move this
into your application directory so we're
going to go ahead and we're going to
move that in there
and then on windows it's going to ask
you to run it once you're done
installing it on mac what you have to do
is specifically go and search for neo4j
click on it and then it's going to go
ahead and run so that's really the only
difference between windows and mac
otherwise it's exactly the same and
again we're going to need this key so
let's just go ahead and copy it to our
clipboard
so let's just wait right now the first
thing we have to do is read this
licensing agreement so go ahead and read
it i read the whole thing i'm joking i
didn't read any of it i just agreed and
then i'm gonna go over here and you can
either register with your email or with
that key that you were provided we're
gonna go ahead and paste in that key
and we're gonna activate our account
let's get rid of this
all right so now it's just gonna do a
little bit of checking you know it's
gonna check our system requirements it's
gonna download the runtime which i'm not
gonna pause for because it seems like
it's going really fast that's gonna look
for neo4j et cetera blah blah blah you
guys kind of get the point this is just
a download process
so let's just wait for this to
finish up all right
so how was your day guys i'm trying to
stall as much as possible
okay it seems like this is going to take
a while so i'm just going to pause the
video
once the download procedure is done you
should get redirected to a page that
looks like this you'll probably see
something regarding movie databases and
what i want to do is i want to just go
ahead and delete that project so just go
ahead and delete it and let's create a
brand new one
and so this project is going to be
storing a lot of mba data that's what
we're going to be working with within
this crash course to learn neo4j
so what we're going to do is we're going
to change this project name to mba and
what we want to do is we want to add a
neo4j database management system so what
we're going to do here is we're going to
click add here we're going to say local
dbms for database management system let
me just zoom in here click over here
we're going to do this and then over
here what we're going to do is we're
going to give our database a name let's
just call it mba
neo4j
and then we're going to give it a
password i'm going to call it well
password and you have to remember this
password let me just go over here again
password you have to remember it
remember
we're going to go ahead and we're going
to create this database management
system
so let's just give it a while this this
will take maybe you know a few seconds i
don't suspect that it will take a minute
or two but it should take a few seconds
so tick tock mba stands for national
basketball association and so now what
we want to do is we want to go ahead and
start this so let's go ahead and start
it
and again this should take a few seconds
not a minute or two but a few seconds i
hope
let's just wait this out
now that we started our database
management system you can see that
inside of our database management
systems we have two databases we have
the system database and we have this
default neo4j database remember the
database is where we are going to store
our nodes as well as our relationships
okay so now what i want to do is i want
to connect to this database and start
writing some queries in order to add
nodes as well as retrieve nodes etc
so in order to do this what we're going
to do is we're going to go to this over
here graph apps we're going to click on
neo4j browser and what it should do is
redirect us right over here
and now what we want to do is
connect to our database so what i'm
going to do is i'm just going to write a
quick query let me just zoom in here you
don't have to understand this query i'm
just going to go ahead and write this
and what we should get back is nothing
and what's happening is it's actually
already pre-connected to our query so
you can see here that this is the
database information is called neo4j and
is connected to
the mba app so it's automatically
connected to it isn't that amazing so
right in here this is where we are going
to start executing our neo4j code so you
know what let's just get right into it
in this section of the course what we're
going to learn about is querying data
that is retrieving nodes as well as
their relationships however in order to
do this we need to have data inside of
our database and as of yet we have no
data
so we're going to learn about how we can
add and create data inside of our
database but for now what i want you to
do is i want you to go to my github page
and go to o1 initial data and i'll have
this somewhere linked in the description
below
and what this is going to do is run a
mutation that is going to create a bunch
of nodes as well as their relationships
and all this data pertains to something
related to the mba so over here we have
nba players we have coaches and then
over here we also have some teams and
then over here we have a bunch of
relationships so if this code doesn't
make any sense to you that's completely
fine we'll learn about how we can create
data a little bit later but for now i
want to focus in on how we can query
data so let's just quickly copy all this
code
let's copy all this
awesome and what we're going to do is
we're going to paste it right in here
now
this right here is actually known as
cipher code so neo4j uses cipher so
just like postgres uses the sql query
language this is another language called
cipher it's not really important but
just for you guys to know so we're going
to go ahead here we're going to execute
this and we should see this window right
over here saying that hey we have added
25 labels we'll talk about what labels
are but you probably know what they are
already because i explained them to you
and then over here we have 25 nodes that
were added we have a bunch of properties
and relationships and so what we can do
is we can just get rid of that we have
data inside of our database so let's
begin with querying data now let's
remember inside of neo4j we have two
different types of things that we can
store we can store a node which you can
think of as an entity a thing so in this
case it's either going to be an nba
player an nba coach or an nba team and
then we have the relationships between
those nodes
so let's forget about the relationships
let's first learn how we can query nodes
themselves
now using the cipher language what we
need to do in order to query for
something is state that we need to query
for something and we state that by using
the keyword match so let me just zoom in
here for you guys just so you can see
match is the keyword that we utilize in
order to query for things so that's
exactly what we're always going to start
with when we want to fetch data
and then well we want to fetch a node a
node in cypher is always going to be
representative as
two parentheses so two parenthesis so we
want what we want to do is we want to
match a node
and then in here we can give this node a
specific variable so we can just call
this node we can call it whatever it is
that we want but we can call this node
and it seems like node is actually a
keyword let's just yeah let's just use n
for for for node
and then what we want to do is well we
want to return those nodes because okay
this matches the nodes but now what we
want to do is we want to return that
node we eventually want to get that node
back so what we can do is we can do
control shift to uh or ctrl enter to go
to the other line
and then we can say return
and return
n
and what this is going to do what this
very simple query is going to do is
going to take all of the nodes inside of
our application and return it so let's
go ahead and execute this
and there we go let's actually zoom out
a little bit so i'm going to be zooming
in and out quite a bit
and over here you can see that well we
have a bunch of different nodes we got
all of our nodes so you can see here we
have the player nodes you can see that
they're all organized in different
colors so over here we have the players
and also we have these crazy
relationships even though we didn't ask
for the relationships from this graph
format we always get the relationships
if there are relationships between notes
so over here you can see that we got
anthony davis we got russell westbrook
we got frank vogel which is the coach we
got the grizzlies so we got a bunch of
different notes and that was the query
to get those notes
so now let's actually think about how we
can maybe filter for specific nodes for
example maybe i don't care about the
coach maybe i don't care about the team
i just want to get all of the different
players so let's zoom back in here
and let's think about how we can run
this query so i can get all of the
player nodes rather than you know the
team nodes and the coach nodes
so the first thing that we're going to
do is we're going to say match then
we're going to say we want to get a node
so we're going to represent that with
these two parentheses and then we're
going to say return and what we want to
do is we want to return
whatever the variable we add in here so
let's just say n n
so what we want to do right now is this
is going to match every single node and
give it to us now we want to specify
that we only want the player nodes
now remember
all nodes have different labels attached
to them so we can actually attach labels
to them and if actually if i hover over
lebron james you can see
that
to the right we have these node
node properties and it says player this
one says team this one over here says
coach
and so what we can actually do
is inside of these parentheses that are
that is representative of the node we
can say colon and
specify what label we want to get in
this case we're saying that hey we want
to get all of the nodes that have the
player property and we can actually
change this right now this variable name
this is variable so we can call it
whatever it is that we want you can
change it to player if we want to
because now it's more indicative of
being a player so we can go over here
say player we want to return player and
if i were to execute this
and let's zoom out again
you can see now we get all of the
players as well as their relationships
so over here you can see we have kevin
durant we also have james harden their
teammates giannis and then chris
middleton luca doncic and then we have
all of these relationships and of course
we can do this for coach as well as for
team
so we can go over here
and if we want what we can do and let me
zoom right back in we can say match and
we can say coach
and then over here we can say i want to
the coach and i'm going to say return
coach
return coach so let's go ahead and
execute this and you can see now we get
all of our coaches and there's no
relationship between coaches so that's
completely fine
now i highly encourage try this on your
own get all of the team nodes so i'll
give you guys five seconds to pause the
video and do it on your own
all right hopefully you guys tried this
this is going to be relatively simple
we're going to say well we want to get a
node we're going to call this team
and then over here we're going to give
it the label team
and then we're gonna go here and we're
gonna say return team and then over here
you can see that we get all of our teams
how terrific is that
okay so let's actually go back a bit and
let's go to all of the players
now what i want to do is i want to click
on a particular player so when i click
on this particular player you can see
that this player has the label player
and then over here we have a bunch of
different properties so remember a node
is going to have a label as well as a
bunch of different properties it has an
id it has well i added an age it has a
height it has a name it has a number and
also has a weight
so what we can actually do is we can
actually fetch for specific properties
we don't have to fetch for the node
itself so in order to do this what we
can do is well we can do match we can do
this query but instead of returning the
whole player node what we can do is we
can return a specific property on that
player so we can return maybe their name
and if we were to execute this what we
get is we get this table format because
at this point we're not returning nodes
we're returning properties but you can
see here that well we have russell
westbrook lebron john rand luca and all
these names and that's all we're getting
and we can actually get more if we want
to we can get more properties all we
have to do is say comma and then player
dot and then whatever property we want
so for example we can also get their
height so if you were to execute this
you can see here we get their name
as well as their height
now over here you can see at the table
it's called the player dot name over
here also this is called player dot
height
we might not like this name at all so
what we can do is we can actually change
this name by using an alias so in order
to use that we say as
and then we can say i don't know
mba player name or we can call this
whatever it is that we want we can just
call it name if we want to
and then over here we can say as and we
can say as height
so if you were to execute this let's
just execute it here you can see that
the names are now different rather than
player.name they're called name and
height
all right cool so i hope this makes
sense and that's really how we can query
for specific
uh specific uh nodes
now one thing that i want to note is
that of course you can filter your nodes
so we actually started filtering our
nodes by utilizing the label
and maybe that's not enough for us maybe
we want to filter for you know
nodes within the player label
so let's start talking about how we can
filter our nodes
so for example let's begin with a very
very simple thing let's say we want to
query for
lebron james's node we just want to get
this node right over here we don't want
to get any of the other ones we just
want to get this node how do we go about
doing that
well let's zoom in here
in order to do this what we're going to
say is very simply match
and then of course we want to match a
node now this node we can actually just
call lebron and we could specify that
this is going to be a player node
and now what we're going to do is let's
do shift
enter let's just say we want to return
lebron
so return lebron so here what we're
saying is we want to get all of the
nodes that have a player and we want to
return it
now at this at the end of the day what
this is going to do is just return us
every single node that has the player
label of course this is not what we want
so what we want to do is we want to get
just a lebron node so in order to do
this what we need to do
is start filtering out for this node
based on some of its properties
so the best property that i think of
utilizing is the name because it's going
to be unique across every single
individual now if we have a large
database maybe there might be two lebron
james's so maybe in in that case we
could use the id but i'm going to use
the name
so how do i filter for all of the nodes
where the name is lebron james well it's
actually pretty easy so in between the
match and the return what we're going to
do is we're going to do another shift
enter and then here we're going to say
the keyword where so we're going to
utilize this in order to filter for
specific
nodes
so we're going to say where and then
we're going to say where the player or
sorry where
the lebron dot name and maybe over here
what we can do is we can change this to
player just so it makes a little bit
more sense
so we're gonna say player
and then over here we're going to say
where the player
dot name
and we're going to say where the
player.name is equal to
lebron james and the capital case is
really important we can't just have
something like
lebron james or whatever make sure that
the capitalization is correct because
cipher detects this so because there is
a difference between this and this just
to let you know
so now what we can do is we can execute
this query and now all we get is lebron
james how awesome is that
and of course now we can click on it and
see all of the properties one thing is
right now we're getting the graph aspect
of it and this is the visualization but
when we actually get our data back
inside of our application it's going to
look a little something like this
so it's going to look something like
this but this is again representative of
a node
all right cool
so
that is how we can do the first
filtration now there's actually another
way we can do the exact same thing
so instead of doing the where clause
just like we did here what we can do is
we can get rid of this
and then inside of this node what we can
do is
what we can do is we can say space
space oh my goodness space and then we
can add these curly braces and then in
here what we can do is we can have a key
value pair system so we can say here
name and then here we can say lebron
james
and this is going to do the exact same
thing what this is going to do is it's
going to filter for the player where the
name is lebron james so we can go ahead
over here and we can execute this and of
course for both commands we can have
multiple multiple different things over
here we can say lebron james we can say
here height is two point i don't know
one
at this point if i were to click on this
his height is
2.06 so we should get nothing
and we get nothing however if i were to
change this to
this
we should get lebron back and we do
all right cool so that is how we can
filter for specific things but well
maybe this is not enough maybe we want
to get all of the players that are not
named lebron james
so let's actually go back to the where
so we can say here where
uh and we can say player dot name
is equal to lebron james so that's what
we had
before and now what we want to do is we
want to query for the players that are
not
named lebron james in order to do this
what we can say is instead of having
equal we can have
two
square or two triangle brackets over
here this is just simply saying that i
want all of the players where the name
is not equal to lebron james and so if
you were to execute this
you can see here we got kevin durant
james harden giannis we get absolutely
no lebron james so over here lebron
should be here because he's tame
teammates with these people
okay cool
so the next thing that i want to teach
you is some other conditions so maybe
now we want something more reasonable
maybe we want to query for nba players
based on their height and we want to see
all of the players that are taller than
two feet so earth's are not two feet
i hope that every nba player is taller
than two feet but taller than two meters
and honestly i'm i'm in canada i use a
feet in inches and then i also use
pounds instead of kilograms but when i
search for these players on on google it
just shows me them in meters and
kilograms so that's what i'm utilizing
all right so we want to get the players
that are taller than two meters so in
order to do this we're going to say
match
we're going to say player we're also
going to say that we want to get the
the player label
and then let's go over here and let's
just say return player
and then in here we're gonna have a
where clause so in here we're gonna have
a where clause
and then inside of this where clause
we're gonna simply say where player dot
height
is greater than or equal to
two
so if we were to execute this
you can see that now we don't have john
morant i think john morant was the only
player that was
under two feet
and i think we don't have him at this
point
okay yeah okay cool
now we can of course do the same thing
for any players that are less than two
feet so we can run this exact same query
and by the way what i'm doing to get
this query back is i'm just clicking on
this and then clicking the up keyword
and this gets me my query back
so now what we can say here
we can get rid of that get rid of this
we can say it's less than two feet and
if you were to execute this oh we get
james harden we get we got a bunch of
players actually not just john marant
all right awesome and what we can
actually do in here is
do some arithmetic so for example maybe
i want to get um
players that have a bmi
that is greater than 25 and if you don't
know what the bmi is it is the weight of
the individual divided by the height
squared and what it's
supposed to do is just tell you if
you're you know if you're obese or
you're too skinny or you're just right
now a lot of these players are going to
have a bmi that is greater than 25 which
it means that hey they're obese but
they're nba players and they're
extremely muscular so they're actually
not that obese but you know let's just
go ahead and calculate it
so over here what we can say is we can
match player
and we're going to say player
colon player
and then let's go ahead and just return
the player and then in here
so in the where clause
in the where clause what we can say is
we can have a little bit of an
arithmetic statement so what we can say
is we want to get the player
dot weight and remember we want to mult
we want to divide it by
and we want to divide it by the player
dot height squared so what we can do
here is player dot height
and then over here times player dot
height
and what we can do is we can actually
wrap this whole thing in parentheses
and we can say that this we want this
to be greater than 25
so we want to essentially do this
calculation over here and then we want
to filter for the players that have
this
be greater than 25
so let's go ahead and let's execute this
and
of course we get you know the heavier
players so luka doncic we get you know
joel embiid we got james harden these
three players are actually kind of
considered almost out of shape all the
time
so this actually kind of makes sense and
then over here lebron a.d and then kevin
durant well they're just freaks of
nature that are very muscular i'm
actually surprised kevin durant is there
but these are very fit people okay cool
so we actually did the arithmetic
correctly
okay so now
one thing that i want to note is we have
been
querying for specific players based on
one condition so you know whether their
height is greater than two feet or
whether their name is lebron james or
whether their bmi is greater than 25.
but what if we have multiple conditions
what if for example we want to get all
of the players that weigh more than 100
kilograms but are shorter than 2 meters
long
how do we do a query like this well
let's just get right into it
so in here what we're going to say is
we're going to say match and we're going
to match of course player
we're going to say colon player here
and of course let's just have our return
we're going to return this player
the player nodes
and over here what we want to do is we
want to query for all of the players
that are heavier than 100 kilograms so
let's just say player dot weight is
greater than or equal to 100 kilograms
now what we also want to do is we want
to make sure that these players are also
under two meters long so in order to do
this what we can do to to add additional
conditions what we can say is and
so you can say we want the player to be
greater than 100 kilograms and we want
the player
to have a height
that is less than 2 meters we can say
less than or equal to and by the way in
order to show you what i'm doing here
i'm doing
less than and then the equal sign and
what this is doing is just simply
changing the
changing the syntax but that's exactly
what i'm doing here
okay cool so if i were to execute this
right now all i get is james harden
james harden is the only person that is
under two feet and weighs
you know equal
more or equal to 100 kilograms
all right and that's exactly how we can
do multiple conditions now of course
what we can do is we can do the um
we can also do a or clause so maybe we
want to get all of the players that
weigh more than 120 kilograms or all of
the players that are taller than 2.1
meters so we want to kind of get the
freaks of nature
so what we can do here is we can say
match
player
match player and then we're going to say
we want a player
and then we're going to say return
player
and what i'm going to do is i'm just
going to copy this command because it
seems like we always write this out
and then in here we're going to say
where
and then what we want here is we want
all of the players that are way more so
greater than or equal to 120
and then we're going to say or
the player's height
is greater than or equal to
and we're going to say 2.1 this is just
going to get us you know the freaks of
nature in the nba if you were to execute
this we get joel embiid who is well more
than
120 and the height is this so he
actually matches both conditions you get
giannis you get chris happs porzingis
i think that's that's it it seems at
this point uh all the players that we
get back actually match both conditions
so maybe if i were to change this to
see this is kristaps
something like
2.25
so at this point this condition over
here
is
going to
and not match actually wait
yeah so actually maybe if i change this
to like something like this
2.15 so at this point giannis attitude
he's not going to match this condition
however he is going to well he's going
to also not going to match this
condition yeah so this is actually a
perfect example so giannis doesn't match
the first condition but he matches the
second condition so he's in here same
with porzingis the only person that
actually matches both conditions is joel
embiid and we get him back of course
all right awesome
but now what if we wanted to get all the
players that did not meet this condition
well in order to do this what we can do
is we can just flip these arrows instead
of saying greater than or equal to we
can just say less than and over here
less than as well
but instead what we can do is we can say
not
so what we can say is here where not
this condition so where they don't meet
this condition and at this point what we
should get back are all the nodes except
for joelle embiid so if you were to
execute this you can see here we don't
have joel and b to buy his hairs doesn't
have a teammate
and so remember the knot is just how we
can flip things if we wanted to do that
all right that's awesome
so what's the next thing that we want to
learn
well right now what we're doing is we're
getting back a lot of players so let's
go here and let's just say where player
dot height
is greater than or equal to greater than
or equal to two
and we want to return all these players
and right now actually this is not at
that many players we have what um six
eight nine players but what if our
database is humongous and we're getting
so many different players maybe
thousands of different nba players
how do we limit it
so we get you know maybe 10 nba players
in order to do this what we need to do
is right after the return what we can do
is we can say limit and then we can say
limit well however nodes we want to get
back over here we can say limit five
which will give us five different nodes
over here you can see now we only get
five nodes and we can actually utilize
this if you want to do something like
pagination so instead of getting all of
the different nodes we can say limit 10
show the first 10 if the person scrolls
down some more then we can show the next
10.
so for example let's just go back over
here let's just say limit 2.
so limit to 2 and what this is going to
do is it's going to actually give us uh
all the players in
a particular order so you can see here
that we're getting anthony davis and
then we're also getting lebron james
so we get these two players
but what if maybe we wanted to get the
next two players
well what we can do at this point is
utilize another keyword called skip
so we can say hey we want to skip the
first two we want to get the next two
and of course we want to limit it to two
so we want to skip the first two and
then get the just the next two
so at this point if i were to execute
this
we don't get anthony davis and lebron we
get chris tapps and luca and just to
really explain this let's get rid of the
skip
and then over here we're going to say
limit four so you can see here that
we're getting back if we limit it to
four we get back lebron and anthony
davis and lebron and anthony davis were
the first two that we got back
and then over here we get back the next
two are luca and kristaps so essentially
what we're saying here is what we want
to do is well we don't want to get the
first two which is
uh
which is lebron and anthony davis we
want to get the next two because again
we're limiting it to two so if you were
to execute this again we get back those
two players
so the next thing that we can actually
do is act order by specific players so
maybe what we want to do here is well we
want to get all of these players and
instead what we want to do is instead of
ordering by whatever the whatever neo4j
is ordering these players by we want to
specify that we want to order these
players by
maybe their height we want to get the
tallest players first so we're going to
say order by player dot height and we
want it in descending order so we start
from the tallest and we descend down to
the lowest so if you were to execute
this
in the node format it doesn't seem like
it we're ordering them in any way but
remember the node format over here is
just showing us how the data is going to
look what we ultimately get back is
something like this and you can see here
if i were to zoom out we get kristaps
posing as first who is the tallest
player and you can see here that now
we're you know we're descending we're
descending of course what we can do is
ascend so we can get the shortest player
first
you can do ascending order
and
at that point we get luka doncic and you
can see now we're ascending
all right awesome and that really pretty
much concludes
filtering for notes we've actually
learned quite a bit as to how we can
filter notes
the only thing that i haven't really
taught you is how we can filter for
multiple nodes at the same time
so in order to do this what we can very
simply do is say match
and then we can say match and of course
we have these parentheses to specify
that we want a player so we're going to
say player we're going to say player but
what if we also wanted to get the
coaches
in order to do this all we have to do is
say comma and then we say another set of
parentheses because we want to get
another set of nodes so over here we can
say coach
and then over here we can specify that
we want the coach label
and then right down here we can return
both the player as well as the coach
and if i were to execute this
if we were to execute this you can see
here now we get
both the player as well as the uh
as well as the uh
coaches nodes and we also get their
relationships
now of course we can also add where
clauses in here just the same so we can
say where the player dot height
where the player dot height is greater
than or equal to two meters and we can
of course add additional where clauses
for the coaches as well so that's just
something that you guys should probably
know so now we don't have the shorter
players so for example
taylor jenkins doesn't have his player
because he's too short
and now steve nash only has one player
because
james harden was too short so i hope
this is making sense and of course i'm
gonna highly suggest that maybe try to
query for the team as well how do we go
about doing that well we would go here
and we would say team
and then we can say something like we
can label it team
and then over here we can just return
team
at this point we get everything back
now this is looking very similar to what
we had at the very beginning and
remember we had something like this at
the very beginning so if we don't
specify a label we get all of the notes
back regardless of the label and that is
exactly what we did in the very
beginning and that's what we got
all right cool so the next thing that i
want to teach you guys is querying for
relationships so remember all of these
nodes have these relationships and let's
actually start querying for specific
relationships
in this section what we're going to
start doing is querying for specific
nodes based on their relationship and
probably the best example of this is if
we wanted to query for all of the
players that play for a specific team
for example maybe we want all of the
players that play for the los angeles
lakers now you might be thinking okay
well lebron james he plays for the los
angeles lakers so maybe we can query for
all the players based on their
properties but there's no properties
that links lebron james to the los
angeles lakers instead this relationship
right over here it's the one that links
lebron to the lakers
so how are we going to query for
specific nodes based on their
relationship
well let's get into it let's actually
write a query where we query for all of
the players that play for the lakers
so the first thing that we have to do is
specify the keyword match that is well
that's a given we want to query we
always have to specify match and then we
want to query for the players so let's
say that we want the player nodes and
let's specify that we want the player
however what we want is we want the
players that play for the los angeles
lakers
and so really what we need here is two
nodes and then this is going to be the
team and this we can label it as team so
we can over here say that this node is
team
and we want to specify the relationship
between these nodes and we actually
specify the relationship between these
nodes with an arrow so we do a
minus sign and then square brackets and
then another minus sign and then
the uh
the triangle the right triangle and over
here what we're saying is we have this
player node
we have this team node and then we have
this relationship between the player
node and the team node and then inside
of this square bracket we can specify
anything that we want we can specify
what relationship we can have because
over here if i do colon we have
different labels for these relationships
like play four played against played
whatever we can specify exactly what
relationship we want in this case we
want the place for
relationship so this is how we specify a
relationship again we have the player
node and then over here we have the team
node and over here we have this
relationship and remember this is going
to be a minus sign minus sign arrow and
then over here in the square brackets
we're going to define
exactly what we need and we can also
call this whatever it is that we want we
can give this a varying variable name
called relationship
so the other thing that i want to note
is remember this is one directional a
player has a place for relationship with
a team not the other way around and
that's why the arrow is going this way
we could also move the arrow over here
like this if we wanted to but of course
then we're gonna have to change this to
team and we're gonna have to change the
other one to player so remember we're
moving in one direction we have to
specify the direction all right cool
so let's go ahead and we have this thus
far
now what we want to do is we want to
return all of the players that play for
a specific team so now what we can do is
simply say where
team dot name
is equal to los angeles lakers and this
is also going to filter the team as well
as the players so the players also have
to play for the los angeles lakers
and then what we're going to do
is we're going to return
we're going to return the player so it's
going to return the player and if you
were to execute this you can see now we
get all of the players that play for the
los angeles lakers
okay i hope that makes sense so again we
have a node here for the player we have
the relationship we have the team over
here we have our where clause over here
we're returning the players that play
for the los angeles lakers which are all
of these and of course if we wanted to
we can also return the team itself
so we can go here and now we have
this relationship
and it looks kind of wacky but again we
have russell that plays for all of these
teams so russell lebron ad
okay cool and of course we can have more
complex queries if we want to we can
have here you know we want or
the team dot name is maybe the mavericks
maybe we want to get the lakers and the
mavericks so we can say dallas
mavericks
mavrix
and if i were to execute this
then we get where are the mavericks
let's zoom out here okay maybe we made a
typo because we should have the dallas
mavericks in here as well
uh dallas yeah i misspelled this so
dallas mavericks
if i were to spell that correctly you
can see now we have these relationships
cool
all right that is awesome
so now what i actually want to look at
is if you go to the play for if you
click on any play for a relationship you
can actually see that this relationship
itself has a property called salary
so remember
nodes can have properties relationships
can also have properties
and you know these properties can have
whatever it is that they want in them
now over here for the place for we have
the salary property
so let's actually write a query where we
query for all of the players that have a
salary that is greater than
35 million dollars so we want to see
who's like the richest players now all
these players are making incredible
money but let's just get the ones that
are making more than 35 million dollars
a year
so let's go ahead and let's do this so
we're going to do this from scratch so
we're going to say well we want the
player node and we want to get the uh we
want to get the play for relationship
because that's where the property salary
property exists so let's specify this
with the label we're going to say we
want
to get
the team so we're going to say over here
team and we're going to say colon team
and over here what we want is we want
the place for
uh relationship and we can actually give
this a variable name i'm going to call
it contract so i'm going to call this
contract so now what we can do is we can
simply say
where
contract
dot
salary
is greater than or equal to
35 million so let's make sure that i
have
the right zeros
and then what we can do is simply just
return the player and because we're not
using team here we can just simply omit
this over here
so let's go ahead and execute this and
now you can see we get kevin durant we
get luca
we get russell we get a d chris
middleton and giannis surprised lebron's
not here
oh well i guess lebron's not making 35
million so that is the query and if we
wanted to know exactly how much they're
making then we need the relationship so
this time we might need the team so we
can see the relationship between the
team as well as the player
so now we have
giannis who plays so this is plays
against so played again so this is not
place four this has another set of uh
properties which is like the actual
points that they got the minutes or
whatever if you go go to place four okay
giannis is making 47 million
if i go over here chris milton's making
43.
lucas making 50 million i wish i could
make 15 million oh my goodness we got
kevin durant he makes 45 million
and we have
anthony anthony davis is probably the
poorest one out of them we might need to
make a gofundme page for anthony davis
only 38 million wow while everyone else
is making 45 million plus okay so you
guys get the point
so that is that is well pretty much it
so let's actually
make one last relatively complex query
let's now
do something and i highly encourage you
to try to do this on your own this is a
little bit tougher
i want you to get all of lebron's
teammates so all of lebron's teammates
that make more than 40 million dollars
so let's actually try that query out
so i'm gonna give you guys five seconds
to try it on your own
five four three two one hopefully you
guys paused the video and gave that a go
remember the problem is we want to get
to all of lebron's teammates to make
more than 40 million dollars
so this is a relatively complex problem
but we can actually simplify this
problem into many well smaller problems
that we can solve pretty easily for
example
the first thing that we probably want to
do is figure out a way to query for
lebron's teammates and then once we get
lebron's teammates we can query for the
players that make over 40 million
dollars
so let's begin by just getting all of
lebron's teammates so to do this what
we're going to do is we're going to say
match and what we want to do is we want
to have two nodes so the first node is
going to represent lebron james and the
second node is going to represent his
teammates we're gonna have a
relationship between them
which is the teammates relationship
right over here
so the first one is going to be lebron
and this is going to be a player and
we're going to have
lebron the lebron node have a teammate's
relationship
with
the
well with another player that we're
going to call them
a teammate and now what we can simply do
is just return the teammate and if we
were to execute this
we would get
nothing so this is not what we're
getting and the reason for this is right
now lebron is anybody we have to
actually filter for the actual lebron so
what we can do here is we can say simply
name lebron
james
and now we can
we only get russell westbrook and
anthony davis which are lebron's
teammates
so now what we want to do is we want to
get the salaries of these two players so
let's go back here
click the up key
and remember the salaries lives in the
relationship between the uh the player
node as well as the team node the place
for relationship
so what we need to do is we need to get
the uh we need to get the players so we
need sorry we need to get the team
so we can actually do this by having
another match so this is the first time
we've actually done this we can actually
have as much matches as we want to query
for specific things
and over here we can say
that we want the teammate node
to have a relationship or we want to
query for the teammate node that has a
place for relationship with the team
node so with the team node
and we can actually call this over here
the contract
and now what we can simply do is just
filter where the contract dot salary
is a greater than or equal to 40 million
so let's let's make sure i have enough
zeros in there one two three one two
three forty million
so let's execute this and if we were to
execute this we only get russell
westbrook who's making more than 40
million so i hope that query makes sense
over here we're getting all of lebron's
teammates here we're just getting access
to that contracts relationship here
we're doing the filter and then we're
returning those teammates
the last thing that we need to learn
when it comes to querying data is
aggregation so aggregation is the
process where we have multiple data sets
and we aggregate them into one value
and the best way to actually learn it is
to just go through an example so we're
going to go through an example where
what we want to do is
return the players names as well as the
number of games they played
so in order to determine the number of
games a specific player has played there
is this played against relationship so
what we want to do is we want to go get
a specific player and then we want to
get all of these played against because
as you can see we have multiple
it might be difficult to see but we have
played against here played against here
played against here and we just simply
want to sum them or just count how many
we have and that right there is
aggregation we're getting all these
played against relationship for that
specific player
and we are
aggregating it into one value which in
this case is the sum or the count
so let's actually do that right now so
the first thing that we want to do is
well we want to specify that we want to
get the player so of course we want to
get the player because we want to get
the player node
and the played against relationship is
going to be with the team node so over
here we can specify
that we want the played against
relationship
and then this is going to be on the team
node itself so the team node
and so now
all we simply have to do is return the
player dot name because we want the name
and then what we can do is we can give
this relationship a variable name called
i don't know games played
so games played or game played and then
over here all we need to do is very
simply say count game play so how many
game played does this specific player
have and if we were to execute this you
can see here
we have uh the name as well as the
number of games that that player has
played so you can see you know porzingis
has three milton has two
giannis has two etc so that right there
so this right here is an aggregation
because we're aggregating the number of
games played
uh into one specific specific value
which is the count
all right awesome
so now because we know aggregation we
can actually do some really cool things
so this played against so let's go back
over here this played against property
actually has different or played against
relationship has different properties
within it it has the minutes it has the
assist it has the points it has the
rebounds it has the turnovers
so actually now what we can do is we can
aggregate these properties as well so we
don't have to aggregate the relationship
itself we can aggregate the properties
into a specific value
so maybe what we wanted to do is well we
want to get
uh we want to get uh
all all the players names as well as how
much they average per game so how much
points they average per game
so we can actually do that very easily
by switching out this from average
and what we want to do is we want to get
the average of their points because
remember the game's played is a property
that has or the game is played is a
relationship that has the points
property so if you were to query for
this
and if we were to scroll all the way up
you can see here we get their average
points per game all right awesome
so now of course we can do some really
cool things if we wanted to get maybe
the highest uh highest uh uh person that
scores the most points highest points
per game what we could do is we can
actually aliase this so we can say as
points per game and then and down here
what we can do is we can actually order
by and we can make this whole capital
case
order by points per game and we can make
a descending order and then very simply
we can just limit it to the first person
and if we were to execute this we should
get kevin durant who is averaging 37
points a game now there's a bunch of
different methods that we can utilize
such as sum which sums up
well you guys probably get the point it
sums up a bunch of values we also have
max and min that we won't get into
because i don't want to make this course
too too long but you probably get the
point max is going to get the maximum
value min is going to get the minimum
value
okay my good friends in this part of the
course what we're going to do is we're
going to learn how we can delete nodes
so the first thing i want to do is let's
just return every single node that we
have
and let's say what we want to do is
delete john morant let's say for some
reason he's out of the league or we
don't want him inside of our database
so in order to delete jaw morant the
first thing that we need to do is find
jaw morant node that john morant node so
over here we can specify match node we
can also say that the name is going to
be john marant so we can say jaw
mo rent so you can say john rant and
then what we can simply do here is say
delete
jaw
now if we were to execute this we are
going to get an error and the reason why
we're getting an error is because jaw
has
relationships and so if i were to go
here
you can see jaw still has the the played
against relationship as well as the
played for relationship
so what we need to do is we need to
delete
the we need to delete the node as well
as those relationships and a very quick
way to do this is by prepending
the detach keyword and what this is
going to do is going to detach all of
the relationships thus deleting them and
then it's also going to delete that jaw
node so now if we were to execute this
it has been deleted so we have one node
deleted as well as five relationships so
if we were to try to do a match
you know get all the nodes let's do that
again here
let's do match n
[Music]
match and return n
return n
and if you were to execute this
you can see here jaw doesn't exist
anywhere
okay so now let's actually talk about
another thing that i want to delete
let's say we don't want to delete the
actual
node itself but we want to delete the
relationship so for example let's say uh
joelle embiid got traded or he decided
to retire or whatever and thus he
doesn't play for the philadelphia 76ers
and so we want to actually keep joel
embiid but we do want to just delete
this relationship in order to do this
this is going to be very simple we have
to find that relationship so we're gonna
say over here
joel
and then we're gonna say that the name
name is joelle
embiid
and then over here we're going to say
that we want the place for relationship
and we can give this a relationship of
rel
and then over here we're going to say
that this is going to be
with the team and now what we can simply
do is delete we don't have to add the
detach because here we're just deleting
a relationship and we can just simply
delete the relationship and remember
this relationship is only going to be
the place for relationship which is
going to be one if we have multiple
relationships we can actually just
filter for whatever relationship that we
want for example maybe we wanted to
delete a plate again so we can filter
for maybe with the id that we want and
then that would get deleted so if you
were to execute this you can see here
that no node was deleted but now we have
a relationship deleted
okay cool so that is really all we have
to know with um deleting nodes
so it's not very difficult at all
and now what i want to do is i want to
delete every single node in our
application and i highly encourage you
to try to do this yourself so five four
three two one hopefully you pause the
video so to do this what we're going to
do is we're going to get every single
node
and then we're going to detach
everything so we're going to detach all
the relationships
and then we're just going to do delete
end
so execute that and now we get 24 nodes
deleted we got 75 relationships deleted
and the reason why we did this is now
we're going to start learning about how
to create data and then later on we're
going to learn how to update data and so
i want to just have a nice clean slate
let's start adding back some of the data
that we deleted because right now if we
did a match
n
return n
return n we're going to get nothing back
this is going to be deleted absolutely
everything
so the first thing that i want to do is
what i want to do is create a node
that is going to be representative of
lebron james so we deleted everything
let's just add a node that is going to
be player and it's going to be lebron
james so let's go ahead and in order to
do this we're going to utilize the
create a keyword and then we're going to
specify the node itself so the first
thing we can do is we can specify the
label so we can say that the label is
going to be player but of course this is
lebron james so we're going to say label
player and we can also specify multiple
labels onto a node this is something
that we haven't seen before but a node
can have multiple labels so over here we
have a player we have coach let's also
give him a general manager label so
general manager
now of course a node can have a label
but it can also have properties so let's
go over here and we can also specify the
property properties with these curly
braces so we can say name and then we
can say lebron
james
lebron james and then we can also say
the height is you know 2.01
uh meters and of course we can
continuously add more and more but this
is the only query that we need in order
to create a brand new node
so what we can do here is we can
actually get the query assign it a
variable name and we can simply return
it so we can say return lebron
and if we were to execute this
you can see here that we get this lebron
node he has these three labels and if
you click on the properties he has
height as well as name
all right cool so let's actually just go
ahead and let's delete this node because
now what we want to do is actually know
what let's just leave this node and now
what we want to do is we want to create
a node as well as the relationship
so let's create anthony davis
and let's create a relationship as well
to another node that we're also going to
create which is the los angeles lakers
so in order to do this what we're going
to do is specify create and then over
here we're going to give anthony the
player tag or player label
so we're going to say player and then
just like we did match we're going to
have our
our relationship and of course because
this doesn't exist and we have the
create keyword we're going to create it
and then over here we can say simply
plays for so simply place force over
here we can add that and we can also add
properties in as well so we can say
salary
of
34 million dollars
34 million dollars and then we can have
another node that we can create and this
is going to be called team and we can
give this the name give it some
properties name of
let's give it la
lakers
so if we were to execute this this is
going to pass we have created uh two
labels we've created some nodes and
everything so the two labels are for the
los angeles lakers and for anthony
the two nodes are again for the team and
the player and then we have some other
properties so now what we can do is very
simply do match n return n to get all of
the nodes as well as their relationships
and we should see this
now the only issue that we're facing and
that's actually my bad is i forgot to
give the uh this particular node the
property of anthony davis but uh i hope
that's kind of clear
that was my my apologies i completely
forgot about that
so let's just assume that i i did this
remember the same way we do it the same
way that i showed you with the curly
braces
but now let's say we have existing data
so we have lebron james and what i want
to do is i want to add a relationship
between these two nodes so i don't want
to completely delete the lakers and
lebron james and create them all at once
i already have the relationship and i
just already have the nodes and i want
to create the relationship
so in order to do this all we need to do
is very simply get the node that is
representative of lebron james so we can
say this is going to be
we can just say simply
well again he's everything so we could
just say player
and we can call this lebron
and then we can say that the name is
going to be
lebron
james
and now we also need to get the team the
lakers so we can do comma we can have
another node here
and we can say well the lakers
which is a team
and over here we can say that the name
is the lakers so l a
lakers
so now what we can do is create the
relationship between the already
existing lebron node so we can say
lebron
and then what we can do here is say hey
we want a relationship
between the already existing lebron node
and the already existing lakers node and
we want a place for relationship
and we want to give this a salary of 40
million
i think that's 40 million let's double
check yes and now if we were to execute
this
it has worked so we didn't create any
new nodes all we did was create a
relationship so now if we did match and
return n
and execute this
you can see that we have that
relationship and that's really all we
need to know about well
uh uh creating data the last thing that
we are going to learn about is how we
can update our nodes and relationship
now this right here we want to add the
name of anthony davis because we missed
this now of course we don't want to
completely delete the node and then
re-add it we just want to update it
so in order to update it the first thing
that we need to do is find that specific
node now this node right here has no
specific attributes but the id so we're
gonna have to query for this node by the
id now you might be thinking okay well
that's relatively easy what we can say
here is anthony or we can call this
whatever note it is that we want and
then we can say that we want the id of 0
in this case so of 0 in this case
however if i went ahead and i returned
anthony what's gonna happen
is if i scroll all the way up there's
nothing there
so the way that we actually query
using an id is going to be a little bit
different than the way that we would
query using other properties so in order
to query using an id and this is only
using an id this is just the only
difference we're going to say anthony
we're going to say anthony is also a
player
and then what we're going to say
is where the id of anthony so the id of
the anthony node is equal to and i think
it was zero
and then we can very simply just return
anthony so anthony
so let's go ahead and return that and
now we get anthony
so what i want to do is i want to set a
property in here called name anthony
davis
so in order to do this what we're going
to do is right after the where clause
we're going to use another keyword
called set and then in here we're going
to get our node and then we're going to
do dot
and then whatever we want to say so
anthony.name and that's going to be
equal to anthony
davis
and then we're going to return anthony
so if you were to actually execute this
you can see that now we actually created
and updated our node by adding this
particular property so of course we can
add properties we can also update
properties so let's actually kind of do
things on the lebron lebron node so
let's say here lebron we're going to say
lebron's a player
and then we're gonna say let's just use
the where as well so we're gonna say
where the lebron node has an id
lebron node has an id that's equal to
three that's what it was
and then in here what we're going to do
is
we are going to update lebron's height
so we're going to update lebron's height
to be just a little bit taller maybe we
we miscalculated lebron's height
we're going to update it to
0.0 or 2.02
before it was 0.01
and what we can also do is we can also
add another property if you want to so
we can update a property and add another
property at the same time by simply
doing and we should call this lebron not
n
lebron
and we could do that by having a comma
and then have lebron dot age
and i think lebron is 36 and then we can
return lebron
the lebron node so if we were to execute
this there we go everything seems all
fine and dandy now of course we can also
update the labels so let's actually go
ahead and we're going to re-execute this
query but instead this time i'm going to
add another label right now lebron has
the coach general manager and player
label let's also give him a ref label
and so all we have to do is say set and
then lebron and then whatever that label
is so call in that label so now if you
were to execute this you can see that
now he has three different labels
all right isn't that terrific
so we can of course do the exact same
thing with the relationships
so what if we have remember that playful
relationship has a salary and we want to
update that salary to be you know a
little bit larger than what it was
before so just to quickly show you we're
gonna have a match and let's say we want
to update lebron salaries we're gonna
say lebron where the name
is lebron
james
and then what we want to do is we want
to get the salary so we want to get the
salary so we can say contract here
and this is going to be place four
and then over here we can specify that
this is a team we don't really need to
get the team but we want it we will we
will just say that it is a team so we
need we don't need a variable here
and then here we can simply just say
actually you know what let's just return
the team itself so we can also see the
relationship between
lebron and the team
so we're going to say lebron
and then team so if we were to do this
we were to get this and let's say what i
wanted to do is i wanted to update this
so i want to update this label
so that the
salary is maybe 60 million a year and
this is actually very easy it's very
similar to what we've done before
so now what we can very simply do
is say we want the contract
dot
salary
to equal instead of 40 million 60
million
so let's add the appropriate number of
zeros and of course here we need to
add the set keyword and if we were to
execute this
and now if you were to click on here you
can see we have 60 million
so now we talked about how we can update
our data as well as add you know
different properties to our nodes let's
talk about how we can start removing
stuff maybe i want to remove the ref
label maybe i want to remove the age
property from lebron how do i do that
well really simple so let's first
actually find lebron and i guess i'm
gonna have to rewrite this query so
we're going to say we're going to find
the lebron node and let's just use its
name so we're going to say
lebron james
and then what we are going to do is very
simply
just say remove and we don't want to
remove lebron itself what we want to do
is we want to remove
lebron dot whatever property we want to
remove in this case it's going to be
lebron dot age now if you were to
execute this and just return lebron
himself
now
you can see here he doesn't have that
age property now we can of course do the
exact same thing with a label so let's
say we want to remove that ref label
execute that now he doesn't have that
ref label
all right that's pretty much it that's a
good introductory beginner friendly
course for neo4j hopefully you guys
learned a lot and i'll see you guys in
the next one